Note from class(Very important)

 hi guys good morning it's day 10 finally and i hope everyone is excited we've gotten to um this is like half of the program already and yeah we're finally getting to that point where you guys can now apply for jobs and our topic today is finding the right jobs now before i go into today's topic there's something i'd like to explain to you guys

 when i'm talking about profile completeness and profile optimization i still feel like some of you are getting it wrong because i know people are asking some of you have been asking me that um can you can you apply that your profile is not is this 75 or 80 it is is better not 75 75 you probably have one or two things to stay hard but like make sure it's on 84

 Now I'm going to explain the difference between profile completeness and optimization again so you understand properly before you start applying for jobs. Now profile completeness I mentioned something I said your profile can be complete but not optimized but when it is optimized it is definitely complete.

 What I meant by that is your profile being complete means that you've filled in the section, the necessary section that Upwork wants you to fill. There are different sections. We have the headline. We have the headline. We have the summary. And we have the testimonial, portfolio, and project section. We also have the section where you can...

 input your video your face video your introduction video right now when you fill in those sections that's what we call profile completeness that means your profile is complete you filled in everything you need to feel do you understand that means your profile is complete now you can feel those things anybody can go in there and feel anything

 That is where optimization comes in. The act of properly putting the right information, putting the right keywords, putting the right terms is what optimization is about. Optimization gets you visibility. It gets you invites. It gets you direct messages from clients.

 do you understand that's what it gets you your profile being complete doesn't mean you get invites from clients if it is not well optimized so that's why i said your profile can be complete but not optimized but when it is optimized it is definitely complete do you understand so that is that about that now we can fully dive into today's topic which is finding the right jobs now there's

 so there are like two mistakes no not two different mistakes that people make even i made it as well when i got on upwork um newly and that's just applying to jobs randomly like you don't even check the necessary things that you need to check you just see that oh they need a virtual assistant i must apply they need a web developer let me apply oh they are paying ten dollars

 let me apply oh they are paying 15 per hour let me apply no no number one thing is it is not bad to start small

 When I say it's not bad to start small, it means the first thing you should focus on on Upwork, especially Upwork when it comes to Upwork, because they are like 80% legit jobs. In fact, 90% of the jobs on Upwork are legit. Do you understand? They are legit. So when you go on there, the first thing you should focus on as a beginner on Upwork is to build your reviews.

 Don't just apply to jobs that are above. Even though you know that, yes, okay, let's say you've worked with past clients of Upwork, you have the experience, we know. If your profile, if you're not getting, except you're getting invites from those big jobs or you're getting direct messages from the client, that's a different thing. But when you are the one applying, you have to be extra careful.

 Do you understand? You have to be extra careful. When you get invites from such jobs, it is fine. But when you're the one applying, it is different. You have to be strategic. You have to be patient. You have to be smart. You can't just go and apply to jobs. So number one thing is to focus on building reviews.

 now you can start by applying to jobs that pay two dollars two dollars is something for nigerians because they pay hourly right let's not even talk about the exchange rates here yet but you can apply to low paying jobs why just to build reviews it is not necessary that you go on there and then today today that you went there you just want to start applying to 20 per hour jobs 15 come on no

 Except you get invites or direct messages from clients like that, that's alright. But when you are applying, avoid such jobs for now. Avoid such jobs for now. Please. So, before you now apply, there are certain things that you need to check before you apply to a job to avoid...

 um to avoid unnecessary um job issues after all and all that number one is to check if the client is verified now i mentioned that at least 90 of the jobs have are legit the remaining 10 are scam jobs yes they're also scammers are everywhere there's no way you enter where you will not meet bad eggs do you understand but on upwork you the platform has made it easier for you and i to identify this

 people and i'm going to list out everything including what i wasn't even taught that i had to find out myself and it is not that oh i just read it somewhere i experienced it and i'm going to share it with you as well this voice lecture might be a very long one

 So guys, the first thing is to check if the client is verified. Now, you remember I said you guys should apply for verification before you start applying for jobs. Now, I said is that your verification badge is to make clients feel free to trust you with their jobs, right? The same thing goes for this client as well. Upwork makes them go through verification processes as well.

 Because that is what saves you and I from applying to scam jobs. Now, if that client is not verified, please do not apply.

 That's the number one thing you should check for. If the client is not verified, please do not apply. That's number one. Number two, the next thing you should check, I really hope you guys are jotting down, please. Number two factor you should look out for or number two sign you should look out for is their payment verification method.

 upwork also accesses their clients to provide a payment method this is to show that yes the client is ready to pay the client has means to pay and the clients can pay if they don't have these two things it is a huge red flag payment um the client has to be verified

 the client has to be verified one number two the client payment method also has to be verified now when you go on your upwork profile you might be wondering how would i know how would i know when you go on your upwork profile and you go to the job section where you search for jobs when you click on a particular job

 It will bring you the information about the client as well, about the job description. And by the side, you see information about the client as well. It will show you if the client is verified, if the client payment method is also verified. Do you understand? So there's no need to panic. It is right there. You can see it. It is visible enough. Nobody can miss it except you as the kind of person that do not pay attention to details.

 So those are the first two things you should check. Now the next thing you should check is the client reviews. You know freelancers give client reviews as well. See this is why I love Upwork. Both parties, the same thing that I'm teaching you to do, the clients are also expected to do some of these things.

 when you work with a client you can give them review you can talk about their their work ethic if it's if it's worked fine for you if they were good bosses you can you can give them a review they were bad you can also give it to them so that other freelancers will stay away from them if a client has more than two three four bad reviews

 maybe from freelancers complaining that the client is too he doesn't pay early he doesn't pay pay early or he doesn't do this his work hours are not um or maybe the client does not did not stick to contract terms you would see if you see reviews like that please do not apply for such jobs see this one is even very important you can get job afterwards and then you'll be using your mental health to pay

 It has happened to me. I'm speaking from experience. It's even led to me losing my Upwork account. Do you understand? So make sure that you are careful. If the client's reviews are not good, do not apply for that job.

 Do you understand? Do not apply. So number one, check if the client is verified. Number two, check if the client's payment method is verified. Number three, check the client's past reviews. If the client has good reviews, five-star reviews, plus all those writings, like remarks from past clients, if they have good ones, then you are good to go. Now, for beginners, let me tell you the trick that I used and it worked.

 When I went on there, after I was in my serenity, I was applying, I was just saying $10, I will apply. When I sat back to actually re-strategize, I said to myself, these jobs that I'm applying for, these clients are clients that have used Upwork for over 10 years. They've spent over $50,000 on Upwork. Now, why do I think those people would leave me?

 They will leave people that are skilled, people that have reviews on Upwork to come and give me that I just got here. These people know the in and out about Upwork. They know what freelancers should have. They know what an optimized profile should look like already. So most of them even, they rather send invites instead or direct messages or just contact past freelancers that they've worked with and just contact them to work with them again.

 So you know what I did? I stayed away from such clients. They are good clients, but they are above my level. As a beginner, they are above your level. And I'm sure they don't want to work with beginners. There's nobody that wants to pay $25 per hour. And they'll say, okay, they're coming to you that you're a beginner and your rate card is even saying $4 per hour.

 they won't so i stayed away from such people and that's why i said you should focus on building reviews those low paying jobs are not a waste make sure that you perform and give them premium services so they can give you reviews in return it is that review that you will now use to monetize and upgrade yourself in the future on upwork

 Before you can say, okay, yes, now I am made. If you at least now, if you have up to like two, three good reviews from different clients on Upwork, you are good to go. You can apply for any job. Trust me. Any job you can apply for, it will focus on reviews than the amount they are offering for that job.

 So guys, I think that's all for now. That's all for now and any questions you have, please put it right in the comments.

 group please if you're texting me them in my dms i might not reply in fact i won't even reply please the group is open for you to ask questions and you're asking me the same questions and that person has asked and i have to type the same answer again and over and over and over again do you understand so please stick to the group do you understand so yeah that's all on fighting the right jobs now

 We interact. Today we really have to interact because I'm sure I've not mentioned everything yet. There's still more to talk about when it comes to finding the right jobs. But I don't want the voice lecture to be too long and too boring for you. So I might also send in another voice note today explaining other things as well. I will. Not I might. I will also send voice notes on the group today explaining other things as well.

 So have a nice day. Listen, jot, and please ask me questions.


