Reading proposals on Upwork is like reading terms and condition. Many of us don't usually read it. That's how some clients feel about our proposals when we write it. It's too lengthy. It's too boring. It they carry us go where we don't know. And you begin to wonder if you're in the client's shoes like how am I supposed to read all of this and understand what you're trying to say? But that is the opportunity for you to shine bright like a diamond. You get it? You shine bright with your outstanding

understandable. If you don't understand it, what exactly do you want to write even if writes for you for your clients to even understand you. So, one of the things to consider first is the client's pain point. What is the client's need? What have they complained about in the job description? What is their goal? After they complain, what are they saying they want to achieve next? And what is the timeline? When do they need it delivered? These are the things you should pay attention to before you even

attempt to even go and look for the client's name to write that proposal. Personalization is key when you're writing an Upwork proposal. Why start with their hiring manager? You can just start with their trash folder because that is where it is headed to with that kind of entry of their hiring manager. That person is not a hiring manager. Could be an independent person with a business. Could be a single client. Could be just somebody that wants something for their personal use. So why address them as

hiring manager? That is why I tell people to scroll down in their in the when the client post a job, scroll down to the um what's it called now? The reviews given by other freelancers. Some freelancers are kind enough to address the clients by their name. And when they do so, you can easily pick their name there to address them. But don't fret if they don't have their name there. You cannot just say hi or hi there. And by hide there, I'm not saying d e a r. Before you go and start using

engineering words for your clients, they will just see you as an unserious person. I'm talking about the c h e r e there. So you can say hi. You can start with hello. You can say hi there. And get straight to what you're supposed to write. So you're addressing them either by their name or you're just doing a hi or a hi there. But please resist the urge to say their hiring manager so that you don't lose your chances of getting the attention of that prospective client. Okay. The next thing you should

be considering after addressing them by their name is to address their pain points. There are different ways you can do that. But just for instance, you cannot say I can help you automate. That's a very weak opening or that's a very weak way to address a client. You can say in this your project I see an opportunity to streamline tax assignment because I have done something similar to this for a client in this field or in this sector. Do you understand? It helps them know that okay this person is

knowledgeable and they're not just knowledgeable they've done something because they making reference to that. Just saying I cannot omit doesn't give credibility or anything of such. You understand? So you have to create samples. Don't worry. Subsequent videos either before this or after this will be me sharing with you outstanding breathtaking hooks you can use on your upwork proposal to start the opening. So if I share those hooks with you, you can follow the next steps that will come in

this one I'm sharing with those hooks because the whole essence of hooks is to have the client click on that proposal to want to read more. You know how hook used to hook how hook used to hook fish when you when you go fishing. That's the essence of hooks. So that you can bait the clients and have them open your proposal. So please, it is necessary that you are able to have an opening that really addresses their pain point just like I've given the sample and research on the clients. Go as far as researching

on the clients. If they drop a website, a anything about or the name of their business, go as far as researching about it before sending that proposal. What that does for you is that you can say something about their website or something about their business in relation to the job you're posting for. So me, I'm in automation. So I'm going to be using a a lot of references from automation. So probably the client is looking for how to get um wants to you um get information from their website

into a database. You know, you can use web hook to do all of that. I could first talk about how fine their website is, the color combination, the the kind of business they do, the way it probably aligns with what I love and you know just to show them that I took an extra amount to go and check them out, right? You just don't want to sit down there and not make extra effort like every other freelancer that'll be writing terms and they'll be writing terms and condition instead of an actual proposal.

Show that you understand the job description without actually stating or regurgitating the job back to them. I see many freelancers when maybe when a client say I'm looking for a virtual assistant that will help me document and do this. They regurgitate it back and say I see that you're looking for a virtual assistant that will help you document. No, you don't do that. For instance, in that kind of scenario, you can say, "I understand the need to have someone who is a great virtual assistant

that could help make documentation very easy for you." You see, I showed understanding of the job without regurgitating the job back to the client because why you mentioning the job back to the client? They already know why. All you want to know, all you want to do is to let the client know that, hey, I understood what you you posted and this is my understanding of what you posted. Okay. So, resist the urge to always repeat what the client has said back to them again. It doesn't help. And it's

you wasting every opportunity, every seconds, every minute of their reading because some of them are scheming. Let it be that for every paragraph they skiming, for every line, for every sentence they skiming, they find it fascinating to want to read more about what you wrote. Okay, good. Next is to prefer specific solution. You should let them know that you after letting them know you've understood the job you have done show specific solutions that you're looking to use to implement for them and if in

fact necess necessarily mention past jobs in relation to the jobs they're asking for that you have worked on. So as you're profilering the solution to them that this is the approach you're going to use to solve their problem. Mention a client sample of a client's job you have done in the past that you were able to use that solution. It shows credibility, understanding and efficiency in the job. So don't just profer solution even if it's a sample job you had done for yourself or something you had done and

not necessarily for a client. I always if you've watched my past video especially when it comes to building portfolio I always tell people that when you build a portfolio whether or not you did it for a reclant it is a client project because most of the time you're picking that project from upwork or typicity is generating for you so certainly it's a client project so always mention the relevance of how you've done s something similar and the steps that you use and proide solution

for somebody else okay the next thing you want to consider is showing that you have value to add. Add value immediately. If you can provide a quick tip, a quick suggestion that will help their business. And if you can go as far as even doing a quick demo, maybe a long walk through or something very quick that could help them with the problem they talking about. Maybe just a part of it or just just do something. It helps you stand out. I bet you it helps you stand out. You've shown understanding.

You've shown steps that you're going to take to actualize it. You even show shared a tip that would even help them if they had to do something on their own. Then you did a long video. They would just pack everything like this and hand over to you take and do your work because you know it all. That's you showing and proving that you know because anybody can come online and say they know how to they know how to. But if you're able to do a quick loan video, some clients even ask for it. Some even

give you a time frame within 24 hours within so so hours do a loom video or explain how you're going to do this thing. Whenever a client say explain how you're going to do something go as far as recording a demo. Don't just do written explanation except if they categorically say do they do not want a video. Go the extra mile. Record a video and I bet you it's one of the things that will help you stand out. And even when you're recording that video, try to address them by their name so that they

know that that video you recorded was for really them. Okay? When you're building a bridge, you know, you add sticks or you add metals step by step until the bridge comes to life. That is how your proposal should also look like. Every step of your proposal, paragraph by paragraph, step by step, should be able to link up to the next one and show relevance and flow. So the client is not reading up and is wondering how did the second paragraph come to place. No, there should be a sequence. So when you

are writing your proposal, you should put a lot of things into consideration when writing it. By the time you finish writing your proposal, your call to action should be as great as your hook to. So as I was saying, hope to hear from you. Why not say I look forward to shedding a call with you so that we discuss further on your needs so I can satisfy your I can solve your challenges you know something better or something in that line that will always hope to hear from you that we have bastardized

so much and it shows you can do what you you need to do sometimes you could even say I'm I'm available within the next 24 hours to attend to your needs I have so many ideas to share with you after you have written all the steps and all the things you've done They will not even know when they will click higher now. It will be like you blow them powder like this. They will just click higher now or to chat with you because you've shown credibility. You've shown you've mastered your arts. You've mastered your

your work. So we're going to go to the next step. Now under the anatomy of writing a proposal, one of the things you should consider is attentiongrabbing introduction. It shows where you write the personal greetings using the client's name. Statement showing you understand their needs. Brief mention of relevant qualification that you have. With all of this, you are able to have the first few sent few lines you know grab the attention of the client. Next is value focused body content. Under the value focus body content,

you're writing down your specific approach to their project, brief examples of similar work you have done, explanation of where you are the right fit. After the value focused body content, the next is the clear pricing strategy. Especially for a clients who do not categorically say their price or they're asking you what your pricing is. You'll be transparent with your cost breakdown, explanation of the value you provide under this cost breakdown, and optional package tiers when appropriate,

either suggesting the project catalog if you have one or just breaking down the scopes of the project and saying what it will cost for each and every of the scope. Next is the compelling call to action invitation to discuss further with them. Specific availability for meeting that you tell them your availability. You're available in the next 24 hours. You're available by tomorrow. You're available immediately. Specify relevant questions to encourage response. Some of the relevant questions you can ask a client

is asking them um have you tried using this? If you have, what was the outcome? I could help you, you know, just come up with something that would trigger them to want to respond to you. So, I can't categorically give a kind of question you can ask until I see a sample job um job description. But whatever it is, just ask a question that will trigger them to respond. That is where you put in your thinking cap that will help you give your best at that proposal. Now, I'm going to share some sample proposal

tips and examples. As I mentioned those tips, I mention examples of what they should look like. So, tag along with me. Number one, personalized greeting. Research the client's name and use it early. A small personal touch immediately builds rapport between the both of you. Hi, Alex. That's an example. Hi, Ada. Hi, Adams. Those are examples of personalized greetings. Number two, open with a powerful relatable hook. Start with a hook that shows expertise and resonates with their needs. For example, you can say managing

30 plus virtual events in 10 days taught me one thing. Organized systems win every single time and I would love to bring that experience to your project. That's just a sample which of course must have come from the job description. I'm just giving you an example of how a hook can be very outstanding. Number three, lead with specific impressive metrics. I love to tell people play with numbers. Clients love numbers because numbers build trust. Example of a situation where you have to use a number

is saying I helped a SAS company boost webinar attendance by 48% in under two weeks using targeted automation. Number four mention relevant tools, systems and expertise. Should you speak their language immediately? For example, you can say I see you using Air Table and Zapia. two platforms have used to automate over and over with businesses that need workflow automation. Number five, mirror their keywords and tone. Reflect the words they use in their job post to show alignment without necessarily regurgitating the job back

to them. For example, if they say fast-paced environment, mirror it and say, "I'm experienced working in a fast-paced environment, ensuring tight turnaround without sacrificing quality." Number six, maintain a confident business owner perspective. Write as someone who's offering a solution, not begging for a job. Frame your service like a business partner would. For example, you say, "Here's how I can help." Save your team 15 hours a week. Number seven, prioritize evidence

and proof. Embed proof naturally without redirecting them to your profile on Upwork. Could be a video or PDF. Example of such is saying here's a 2 minutes case study showing how I automated event management for a remote link for a remote team rather. Then you add the link or you attach or support it with a document showing that 2 minutes case study. Could be a video, could be a PDF, whatever it is. Number eight, integrate testimonials directly into your proposal. Drop one or two short testimonials in your proposal instead of

saying see my profile. Example could be you write client feedback and say put in quotation what the client feedback was saying. For example, it could be it could be streamlined our CRM so well we close three times more deals in a quarter. It builds trust credibility. So always use I always tell people that if you have clients write you a testimonial use it to your advantage especially in your proposal. It boosts credibility a great deal. So let's continue. Number nine address requirements explicitly.

Go line by line if necessary. For example, you can say you mentioned needing air table setup, automation building and CRM integration. I have done all three extensively. Number 10, focus on quick win solutions. Propose one or two fast wins to build trust fast with them. For example, you can say within our first week, I can automate your client on boarding and eliminate five manual steps. Number 11, create agency naturally without actually pushing and showing that you're creating agency. When

invited, especially on Upwork, use Upwork's shedling feature smartly and schedule for a call. You can leave only 24 hours of a availability to book, creating urgency without pressure. Example, you can say, I have availability to discuss this in the next 24 hours if that works for you. Number 12, proofread meticulously. That's triple check if possible. Do more than what you have to do. Triple checking your work. Especially for writing heavy or clients facing rules. Typos are instantly red flags to clients. You're

writing something and they are seen unnecessary typos. They will just feel like if this person cannot speak English or cannot type well, what does it guarantee that they can do my work? Well, so you have to proofread your work very very well. Number 13, streamline for clarity. Especially on invites, remember sometimes less is more. A tip that could help is if they invited you, they like they likely have already reviewed your profile. So focus on the next step and ask actionable solutions to offer them. Number 14, match their

professional or casual tone. Adapt if they are formal. You also be formal. If they are casual, be warmly casual. Number 15, build clear, low commitment next steps. Always end with a simple low friction call to action. Would you like me to send over a quick draft outline before we chat? That could be a very low um friction call to action. In another video, I'm going to talk about samples of CTAs or call to actions you can use depending on the kind of prop um job description that is given. Number 16,

turn mistakes into opportunities. If you mix up something as small as like their name, recover smoothly with homework or worms, but remember to read the room when doing so so that you don't annoy the clients. For example, you can say, "Apologies for the mixup, Alex. Let's call it even after I help you streamline your CRM." Depends if the client is um friendly, you can do so. If the client is not friendly, just go ahead and apologize and leave it at that. So a summary of everything we have

said in terms of proposal writing in terms of tips and all that. These are the summaries that can help you so that you put them at the at your fingertips. One, personalize and use their name. Two, open with a strong hook plus play with numbers. Three, mention tools or systems directly, especially the ones they have mentioned that they need to work with in their job description. Four, mirror keywords and professional tone. Five, embed evidence and testimonials without redirecting them out of the proposal that you're writing.

Six, offer quick wins. Seven, create urgency without sounding desperate. Eight, proofread like crazy, like proofre. Nine, always focus on clear next steps and give your call to action. I'm hoping that this was helpful. I'm hoping that these things I mentioned and the examples of how you can use them come in handy for you when you need to create your proposal. You can make reference like I mentioned before to the video I have created before on how a sample proposal could look like. Then you can also I mean proposals there are

no templates to these things because every client do not use one template when they posting their jobs but it's also necessary for you to understand the use case and how you can structure it wherever you find yourself. So you don't have to memorize a template and along the line if you've tweaked and used different templates that you created yourself and you see the one that works for you save that template somewhere so that you can always tweak it to apply for another job. But remember, no two

jobs are the same. So two templates, a template can might most likely not work for two jobs. But understanding the anatomy, the steps that are required when writing a proposal will help you that even when there's no templates, if you understand how it should be written, you can wake up from sleep and be able to whip up whip out your phone or your laptop and be able to craft a very compelling proposal.
