

 my system and all that but to cut the long story short for proposal writing the three classes we're meant to have on it i'm going to try to like sum it all up in this voice lecture that i'm about to drop so after this please you can start applying after this because i

 The reason why I said you can't apply yet or the reason why we've not been applying is because you need to also know how to write a proposal. You need to know the basics before drafting a proposal. You need to know how to strategize, what to look out for before you start drafting your proposal. And then what should be in your proposal according to the type of job that you are applying for. Now, most people depend so much on Chargy PT when they are writing their proposal. That is the reason why.

 you see that you are just writing proposals and you're not getting response nothing nothing is just there now for those that don't know what proposal means i'm going to start by defining what it is now proposal is also known as your cover letter on it's also known as your cover letter on upwork it's like a formal letter you write to the um to the employer or the whoever it is that posted the job

 explaining who you are what you can do to help them when they what you can do that's in line with what they want like how your services connect to what they want so is that it is that letter that you submit when you apply for a job that's what we refer to as proposal it's also a cover letter right so

 When you want to apply for a job, once you click the apply button, it takes you straight to the box where you type in your cover letter. That particular box is referred to as proposal.

 Now, a lot of people make mistakes by going to copy, use ChatGPT. You can use ChatGPT, but be smart about it. Don't just be that copy and paste guru that you just go and then you start copying, copying, copying. There's a way you can do it that you use ChatGPT, but your clients won't still tell that, oh, this person used ChatGPT. I feel the only thing ChatGPT should be for is to just make things easier and faster for you.

 But at the same time you it still needs your own human contribution So don't just leave everything to chagipiti Some people go as far as putting it on chagipiti and they'll just copy and paste without editing what they are meant to edit But it is not even about that. It is not just about writing english or typing um Grammar for them to understand your proposal should be able to like, you know for those of you that are linked They know everybody is on linkedable, you know um

 on linkedin there's something they they emphasize about or they are always like telling you to have and that's like a strong hook same thing with your proposals your proposal should have a very strong hook if you copy and put it on chat repeating

 except you are very smart and probably you've taken courses on how to prompt your child gpt very well and here i can understand that but not everybody knows how to do it not everybody knows how to prompt that you may even think you're good but you might not be that good for all book is different

 it is different so you must have a very very strong hook that no matter how many people apply to that job you still stand a chance to get a proposal view or a dm from that client do you understand so there are a few things you need to look out for before you apply for proposals before you type out sorry before you type your proposals right

 now let's go into how to really write your proposal now there is no one way i cannot tell you this is how you should write but i can always give you a template

 i can always give you a template and this is what i follow and make sure that the first three lines because that's what they will see when they when the client opened the job posting to check the proposals that were submitted they only see the first three lines of your proposal make sure that those first three lines include something catchy skip the skip the oh hi hiring manager now for that i'm an iron manager thingy

 One of the best things you can do, again, let's say, okay, we want to include that high. Check the client's review. You can find the client's name there. Maybe a freelancer that gave them a review and they were like, oh, I worked with Teresa and Teresa was very...

 once you want to start your proposal just write hi teresa this person would see you as a serious and detailed um as someone that pays attention to detail

 And for virtual assistants, that's part of the soft skill you should possess. In fact, any professional, any freelancer, that's part of the soft skill you should possess. Always pay attention to detail. Now, when that person sees this, because they don't write it there.

 don't write it there when they're even writing the client's information they don't put the names there is when the client sends you a direct message that's when you see the client's name the client's location that's when you see it but when you're just checking the job posting you don't see those information there but what do you do as a very smart person check the client's review from other freelancers you can find you may find the client's name

 look at it very read it very well they must have mentioned the client's name two or three times so when you want to start your proposal you can start with i teresa comma start your proposal now i said the first three lines is what they are going to show you know the first line you use it to show that oh i read about you i read the job job posting i checked your pro your page very well and

 I was able to find out that this is your name. This is the name they address you by. It has shown that you are somebody that pays attention to detail, number one. Now, the remaining two lines, right? Those first two lines start with something like, I have created a sample to show you exactly how I'm going to approach this project. Me and you know that we might not even have a sample, but let's just tell them that we have it.

 a very strong hook something that will attract them or you can start with something like hi so so so person let's say you don't find the name at all you can just go ahead and start with something like i have um done something like this before don't type it the way i'm saying it i'm just giving you an example right you still have to construct it properly in a more professional tone i have worked on on a project exactly like this which makes me qualify for this role

 You can write it like that, but there's a way you can write it better than that. Just something that draws the client's attention. The person's like, oh, you've done this before? Let me open your proposal. And once they open it, what's the next thing they should see? A little introduction of yourself.

 hello i've been i have over three years experience you can just make sure it's very short if possible just one line the next thing you should go to go straight to the point um i have um experience working as it is and i can bring that into your days and then now the best way to always close like the closing uh what do they call this thing

 The closing line for your proposal, it should end with something like a very good call to action. Don't say, thank you, I hope to hear from you soon. End it like you've gotten the job. End it like you are the one that even wants to interview the client. See, when we started, I told you, as a freelancer, when you're moving on up work, have a bossy mindset.

 Me, I end my proposals with things like a quick three-minute call. A quick three-minute call would be appreciated to explain further on how I would approach this project. A quick five-minute call. Thank you for your time in advance.

 Do you understand? You've not only used your hook to attract them to view your proposal, you've also given them time. You've also given them what it takes, how many minutes it takes more for you to convince them that you can actually do this thing. Now, after you're writing your cover letter, the next thing you do is to attach samples of those screenshots that I told you that you should put on your portfolio. Now, if the job you're applying to is related to those pictures that you uploaded on your portfolio section,

 now you now paste it again you can post it paste it again there

 See, before you apply for jobs, you know I said it is better to apply on the weekends. Before you apply for these jobs, Monday to Friday, always go on your Upwork, save jobs, check the skills, check the requirements. If it's something that you don't have on your profile, go and perform demo taxes on them so that during the weekends, if you see another job that looks exactly like that, you don't have to go and start looking for screenshots on it. That's why you'll see a job now.

 You see a job now, zero proposals. Before you go and come back and go and bring screenshots and all. You've seen 50 proposals. You've seen 50 proposals. Don't stress yourself. Don't just even bother yourself again. Especially as a beginner. I'm not even swearing for you. Don't bother yourself again.

 do you understand make sure that you're applying early so now to help you apply early make sure that you have those things that monday to friday make sure that you you you you you do you do like demo taxes take screenshots of them so when you see jobs during the weekend to like apply to you can apply during the week as well please me i don't but you can do it check it so you apply you can anytime you want to apply just anytime you know that you already have the screenshots available

 You know you already have the screenshots available. Do you understand? So and that is all. And then now the next thing I'm going to talk about is bidding. Now what does bidding mean? Bidding is when you add extra connects to make up work, put your proposal as like the top one proposal the client will see.

 You know when you go for, we watch movies, right? You see auction parties where they auction a particular item. And they're like, oh, the starting price is $2. Can I see anyone that would raise their hand for $5? And then you see people, they start raising their hand. $5, $8, $10. That's bidding on Upwork. You bid. You can use like, let's say the job requires 12 connects. You can bid with like extra five connects. That will raise your price.

 proposal like to the top one so when the clients check you are like the your proposal is the first proposal on their screen among like 50 proposals yours will be like number one now there are people that they might have uh mostly called bid i have been like some i've seen some i don't want to call them names but it's very um it is not professional

 I don't think I'll call it being not professional, but it doesn't make any sense bidding with like, let's say, 50 Connect. I've seen someone that bidded with 200 Connect. Like, why? Why? And it was even like, I think, a $4 job. Why are you doing that? Please don't join them and be bidding ridiculously. The highest, five additional Connect. And it's not even necessary you bid.

 Do you understand? It's not necessary, but it is advisable. Now, the thing about bidding also is if somebody outbids you, you can only bid to be among the top four. It's only the top four proposals that Upwork would recommend. Once your proposal drops to the fifth, Upwork will refund you.

 understand once your proposal just today and the clients does not view your proposal upwork would refund you your extra connects that you used in bidding so i'm not saying it is um what's it called i'm not saying it is important or it is a must you beat but if you can actually if you see the job when you apply early you see that nobody has beat or anything you can quickly beat like five connect but

 you you won't lose even when others come they might even beat above that because when once you feel you beat you're the first person to be there you beat five the next person coming will beat six they beat higher than the current one there do you understand and if they keep coming like that yes we drop so when it once it drops up is going to refund you now they won't refund you if the client opens your proposal

 They won't refund you because the bidding has served its purpose like that. Whether the client now sends you a message or not does not concern the proposal. So far the client has opened your proposal, the bidding connector has gone. But if they don't open it at all, you get your money back.

 and after that you click on submit and then you pray and wait for the clients to get back to you now please listen to this take notes ask questions if you want and then practicalize it please you can start applying now after listening to this i hope everyone has connect us

 purchase their connect and we have you i don't know some of you applied for verification have you gotten it you've not gotten back on and gotten back to me regarding that so have a very nice day and please keep the questions coming once again i want to apologize for the lateness of the voice lectures thank you


