 now when you want to apply for a job the first thing you need to do is to read the job description it is very important because some clients used to put very important information in between the lines and i'm going to give you an example see anything i teach you or any tips i give you

 I'm not giving you from, oh, I learned it from somewhere or this person told me or I asked Chad G.P.T. It is something that I did, real life testing and errors that I'm giving you.

 So it's not like I said, no, I saw it. And there are some that I heard somewhere. There are some that I made research about. I asked at GPT. But when it comes to like stories that I'm giving you, when I say I did, they are all real.

 Do you understand? That's why some of you are getting results now. Some of you are saying you've gotten views and all that. That's why you're getting results because these are things that I tested and they worked for me. So it is also normal for it to work for you as well. Now, the first thing you do is to read that. If it is to read it three times, please do read it.

 There are some jobs that they put important information and the reason why they put it in between the lines is because they want to know if you read this job description very well.

 they want to know so for example the job i applied to this and i think that was the second job i applied to beginning of this year the woman puts it in between the job description she puts it in bed and she was like what um start your proposal with what's your favorite color

 And then she continued writing. Now for somebody that just go, maybe they just see it and they are like, they just read the headline, a personal assistant is needed, a web designer is needed, they just read it and they are like, ah, I'm also a web designer, let me draft a proposal. They will not see this thing.

 they will not see this thing so when i wanted to draft my proposal the first thing i wrote was hi what i didn't say hi i just wrote what's your favorite color and then i started my um other rights and i was like while i await your response i need to explain to you why i am the perfect candidate for this role when i got a dm from that client we were only three three she texted out of 50 proposals that were submitted

 I stood a chance among 50 people.

 Do you understand? So it is very important that you read that job description. You read that job description. Read it like three times. Digest it. Understand whatever English that is there. If you say an English that you don't understand, any English word that you don't understand, copy it and paste it on ChatGPT. Tell it to explain to you. Now, after reading the job description, the next thing you should read or the next thing you should go and check are the skills, the mandatory skills that are required for that job. It is always there.

 The client will put it there. Now, make sure that you have at least 70% of those skills. If they list out 10, make sure that out of that 10, you have 7. You see those mandatory skills that are listed out? Those are keywords that I told you. Remember when I was telling you that I should, when we were optimizing? I told you save jobs and also freelancers in your niche. Check the keywords on their profile. Check those job descriptions. Check the keywords in those skills section.

 those are your keywords now if you have up to 70 of them 7 out of 10 that's your job

 That's the reason why it even came up. Upwork is trying to let you know that you are a best match for this job. Now, okay, there's something I was supposed to start with before I dived fully into it. Now, when you want to apply for a job, there's that section where you click on find jobs. You would see best matches and you see most recent. As a beginner, always check the best matches because Upwork is trying to tell you that these jobs match your profile perfectly.

 So you will most likely see the jobs that match your niche. Do you understand? So check best matches. At least 70% of the skills needed for that particular role. Make sure that you possess those skills. Now, after checking all these things, I've told you other things you should look out for.

 When it comes to finding jobs, this one is what you should look out for before writing your proposal. Now when you check these things, check other information that I've given you like the client's information, whether they are verified, their payment method is verified, check their past reviews.

 And your hiring rate, check it out. How much connect is needed. Check your connect balance and make sure that it is something that if you don't get it, you won't feel too bad. Always make sure that you are on the connect project. It will also help you plan strategically.

 anytime you're on a connect project because you'll be thinking oh my god i don't want to waste disconnect i must get a job before disconnect and so you apply strategically you apply carefully these are the things that would even encourage you to read this job description properly and make sure that you understand it before you apply


