


looking out for fraudulent or red flagged clients on Upwork. So let's go. First on the list, clients with unverified payment method. Hear me out. Hear me out. There are exceptions to this. There are clients who just joined the platform and as soon as they joined the platform, they putting out job post. So, they've not really settled in to verify their payment, but that's in your hand to find out. So, you open the job posting and see how long the client has been on Upwork. And when you see how

long they've been on the platform, that helps you make an informed decision if you can take the risk to apply for that job. You can try if they just created the account maybe within a week or few days, less than a week, you can give it a try and when they look to hire you, go ahead and encourage them to verify their payment method. But if they're assistant or they are refusing, you already know what to do. Jackpa. But if they appreciative and go ahead to verify their payment method, then you can have

business dealings with them. But on the other hand, we have clients on Upwork who has been on the CL on the platform long enough about a month, two weeks, 3 weeks, some years, but their payments are not verified. Why? Why are their payments not verified? How have they been paying other freelancers? Have they even been hiring anybody at all? So, why are you on the platform and your payment is not verified? You've been on the platform long enough, your payment is not verified, and you're looking to hire

more freelancers. Run away from such clients. They are most likely scammers because if you do a job for them and they don't pay you, what will you do? There's nothing you can do and there's nothing Upwork can do for you either. So you don't put yourself in a situation where you would have wasted connects applying for that job, wasted time and resources doing that job and not getting compensated for your time and your effort. Don't do it at all. I understand you are desperate

to get a job so badly that you want to just start off with something so that it reflects on your profile that you have done a job. It's better you delay getting a job than getting a job that will ruin your career on the platform before it starts. Okay, is that an agreement? Whether you agree or not, we have agreed together. Thank you. Number two, clients who barely hire or don't even hire at all. So when a client job post a job, it is your duty to go and check out the clients to know how many

jobs they have posted and how many people they have hired. If after checking you realize they've posted maybe like 20 jobs and they've most likely hired like five people, six people I mean in general their hiring rate is very low maybe from 67% downward. You should know their red flags. Many of times when clients post jobs, some of them post it and run away. They don't commit to following up. I don't know why. On the other hand, some of these people that post as clients are your fellow freelancers who are looking

to come and steal ideas from people in their own niche to see how they apply for jobs. Imagine applying for a job to your fellow freelancer just for them to steal your idea. I I can't categorically say still, but then you've wasted connect reasoning your hopes high and eventually do not get the job. I remember a story of a lady who posted on Twitter that she was on LinkedIn and she was trying to get job in her field and she was it was not forcom. She had to put out a fake job opening so that

people in her niche could apply so that she could see how they were applying for jobs so that she could see where she's getting it wrong and people actually applied and she said she got a call from all of them on how she would apply. So imagine such a scenario on Upwork. That is why you have to pay attention to the percentage rates at how they hire, number of jobs that they have posted and how many freelancers they have hired so far. Another thing you should look out for is the amount that they

spend overall for all the um freelancers they have hired. So imagine a client's hiring maybe up to 10 freelancers and what they spent in total is like $5,000. Then how much have you been paying each freelancers? So by the time you look at their profile about their history, Upwork will show you an average of what they pay each freelancer. And if care is not taking, you'll be seeing things like $3 per hour, $4 per hour. You don't want to waste your time working for such a client. So you save yourself connect

because such a client are the ones that will have so much demands in the end and would not pay you what is your worth. Talking of about clients with high demand, you would see a client with so much requirements in their job, but by the time you get to pay, you'll be like, did he make mistake to add another to not add another zero? A client can be asking you for a full website revamp or few website building and they're telling you that they paying $20 for it. Such a client will stress sh for your life. So, you better not

even start. Don't even tell yourself that. Okay, let me just do it so that I'll use the money to start up start off on the platform. Let it be a starting point for me. See that starting point will make you not to even apply for any job or not work again. So I understand that you are desperate and you really want to get a job. But don't put yourself in such a situation. There are people who started off well and got jobs well. I'm one of them. So you too can also have the opportunity of applying to

jobs that are your worth both in time and in payment. Okay? So look out for jobs that have unrealistic demands. They're asking for unrealistic things and they are pay like they're not putting their money where the amount is sharp very well for what they demand. So if the client is asking for too much have paragraphs of things that they want but the pay is not simultaneously equal to to what they want just run away. Okay. Another clients or another red flag to look out for from clients are

those that say just do the small task. If you do the task very well, we hire you. Let me not share my experience but those jobs are bound very well on Upwork and so many of them are liars because they will give you the real project that they want you to work on as a test and by the time you've done the test I mean what are they hiring you for again absolutely nothing so they will leave you hanging they'll leave you draining and they'll just tell you they've moved on with somebody and they'll most likely not

move on with anybody at all but you've given giving them free work. So even if it's supposed to be a test, a token should be paid even whether or not they hire you. So if they saying that you should do the token and they saying they will hire you, why don't they cook hire you and give you the the work to do and if you don't do they cannot release you, why do they have to put you through those that kind of back and forth. So bear in mind that if they asking you to do a task and they will pay you later or

no, they don't even say they will pay you. They'll say that they using it to test you to know whether they'll hire you. Don't bother to be honest. Don't bother. If the client is asking you, the client is asking you that you should move communication outside of the platform maybe to Telegram, WhatsApp, email before initiating a contract. Don't take it. Many of them are scammers. They trying to avoid Upwork rules that will b them if they misbehave. So when you move communication outside of the platform,

there's absolutely nothing Upwork can do to recover your money or to save you. So leave all communications within Upwork so that if they try to misbehave, Upwork can see what has happened and will either suspend them or help you retrieve your money. So never you move a communication outside of Upwork. Talking of moving outside of Upwork, some will also tell you, let's move payment outside of this platform. you know get the no tell you they will sweet talk you and say you know up will ask for a

percentage from you as a freelancer why don't you just have all the money to yourself so when we move it outside the platform you don't have to give up their own percentage why do you come to somebody's house and you have come and collect something from their house and you want to run away like a thief without paying due your dues that you are supposed to pay are you a thief say Oh, you're not a So what I'm trying to say is that if they got you from from Upwork that is a platform, why do they

want to take you outside the platform to pay you? Some freelancers over time have built trust with their clients and have had the opportunity to, you know, work outside receive their payments outside of that's at your own discretion. That is if you have worked long enough with the client to know the kind of person they are. But on a general note, I'll always encourage everybody to keep their transaction within Upwork. Give Up their percentage. I mean, they were the ones that linked to you or got you to talk

with clients that you you found. So, don't try to cut corners and at the end of the day, you get bones because if you get bones, which mount, how do you want to keep your mouth to report to Upwork? It's not possible. So when a client is telling you they should take communications or payments outside of the platform, jackpot. Another tip that you should know that a client is a red flag is if they post vague or very lengthy job description and you as a freelancer, you are like I'm not

understanding this. Is it my brain that is spinning me or is the job that that the job description that is not clear? And then when you start asking the clients, they cannot even answer. Then how do you want to help the client do their work? A client that cannot interpret what their needs are. What makes you think that you can help them or solve their problem? Such a client is a red flag because when people start doing your back and forth and they are not satisfied because such a client can never be satisfied, they will end the

contract and best believe they will give you a shining bad review. like the type one star, two star, they will give you those kind of position and you don't want that for your profile, especially when you're starting out. So, please um please try your best to apply for jobs that the client is able to communicate what they're talking about properly and if you ask further questions, they able to answer properly. But if a client cannot explain what they themselves posted, that client is a red flag. Okay?

Avoid rude or demanding clients. There's clients and then there's clients. If you jam the ones that are very rude, especially from when they started posting their jobs, they talking down on other freelancers in the in an attempt to rule you over to themselves. My darling, you are not special from that freelancer. You're not better than that. They will show you the same sh if possible, a refined version. So let your instincts be guiding you. Yes. How a client will be communicating. You know that this one is looking to

micromanage you. This one is looking to talk to you anyhow just because they feel like they paying you. Run away from such a client. You will never satisfy them. No matter how you swallow the nonsense for how long will you swallow? Some you will even swallow finish. When they finish they'll either not give you a review or when they want to give you a review they will be very stingy with it. So when you go on when a client post a job and you've gone to check feedback from other freelancers and you're seeing

that more people are complaining about the person there's no need to put head those people have gone to die on that part for you not to die take their experience and hold on to it and tell yourself you don't want to be part of whatever thing that is going on with the client you understand. So when you see a client is looking rude or is demanding for so much and they are looking to barely pay anything, please let it go. A better one will come. You're deserving of a better opportunity. And I mean for

every red flag, there's a green flag. The opposite of all these red flags are certainly green flags. So as they are being listed, you will look out for the opposite of it. And those are the kind kind of clients you should be looking to work with. Another set of clients to avoid are those asking you for your personal information. Hello. What do they want to do with your ID card? What do they want to do with your bank details and all that? When they can pay you on Upwork and when they can see your

name, if they even want to really really find more about you. They can check you out on LinkedIn. They can check you out on Facebook. They can check you out on other platforms that you're active on. So be careful and be weary to share your personal details with anybody, especially your your international passports and your ID card. Many of them are scammers and are looking to get people's details that they will scam. If they didn't trust Upwork to vet the freelancers they allow on their

platform, then why are they seeking for the freelancers on the same platform? They should have gone elsewhere to find the freelancers of their choice. So be very very sure that you're not finding yourself telling me that you don't know what they gave you that you are hallucinating or they waiting and you are sharing your personal details. Please don't do that. Don't share your personal details with anybody for any reason. Okay? Jobs that look too good to be true. If the job looks too good to be

true, then it's too good to be true. I mean, what do you mean that you are ready to pay $1,000 for a data entry job? Me and you know that it is not up to that amount. But because you know freelancers are desperate to make money, scammers will b them with that money with that amount and waste their time, waste their work. And my dad is in shi you will not see. You who is a freelancer should know better the worth in payment for that particular skill. Don't be greedy to collect a money that

you know is too big and too good to be true. Okay. If you found this very very helpful, you found these tips helpful, I would love for you to like this video, share with someone who will find it very useful and hit the subscribe button. And if you've had experience with clients in the past where they were blinking red flag and you either fell into their hands or you didn't fall into their hands, please go ahead and share in the comment section so that I will learn from you and more readers will read from you. Once more,



