First thing you need to do here is we need to filter a lot of things. Uh as we all

know in every platform there are lot of scams in every platform. There are scammers everywhere. a lot of spams. So in order not to waste your time or waste your connect, you need to filter a lot of things. So the first things first here, I always tell freelancers to filter by payment verified method. So there are some clients that don't have their their payments verified there. There are some clients that what it means actually is that before a client pays uh someone on Upwork, Upwork uh tells the clients to verify the

payment method. That's if a client adds his card. So you wouldn't even want to apply for a job from a client that has not paid before. So any client that does not have payment verified showing on his profile, it means that the client has not paid someone before or maybe the client might not be serious. Uh it can also mean that the client is also new on the platform. But you know, come on, we don't want to take chances. So the safest thing to do is to click here. So what it it will now it will now show

you only clients that have uh payment verified method. So I filter by there. Some people filter by entry level but just leave it that way. So it depends. And then if you come down here you filter by let's say it should show us only jobs that have up to you know [music] less than 20 proposals. Let's say less than five. These are jobs that you stand more chance in in in getting. So if you're a freelancer, if you're just starting on Upwork and your profile does not have your reputation is

not that strong, you should be aiming only for jobs that have less than five proposals. Now before we go here, like I I always do in my videos, I'm using uh image editor as an example. I'm a graphic designer. For those that don't know, I'm a graphic designer. So I searched image editor. So these are jobs from image editors or graphic design jobs. You understand? So, we're using that as an example. Of course, if you are UX designer and if you have a different niche, you should search your

niche here in this. So, for this video, I'm using image editor as uh my example. So, the first thing you're going to filter out is the payment verified method so that you don't waste your time applying for jobs from client that have not paid before on the platform. We need clients that are committed to the platform. Clients that have already been paying people that know how to do things that are serious. So that's the first things first. Now, second thing you need to do is you need

to apply for recently posted jobs. Yes, you need to apply for recently posted jobs. Now, there's a lot of psychology here. Some people apply for any job you see like this job now posted. They wrote two days ago. Although it has less than five proposals, if you still want to try, you can try. But I always advise people to be on a safer side to apply for jobs that are recently posted. Now, how you see the jobs? When you come here, you see uh best matching, most recent, client spending, client

rating. So, let's filter by most recent. Now, when you filter by most recent, this is when you see the most recent job. Now, look at the first job on the list here. posted 18 minutes ago. Now, these are jobs you should go for. Why? Because a client that posted a job just 18 minutes ago, there's a high chance that the client might still be on his phone. The client can still be holding his or her phone. The client can still be in the office. Clients can still be holding working on his laptop. So,

there's a high chance that when you apply for this job, uh your application notification is going to come in and the client is going to see the notification. It's simple psychology. If you apply for a job that was posted two days ago, maybe the client has probably left the office or maybe the client is on vacation or holiday. The client might not see your proposal or might not be on the phone. Now, what we're trying to do here is the client, we want the client to be on in the best position to make a

decision. For example, if I'm looking for, let's say, UIUX designer and I'm holding my phone and I go on Upwork and I post a job and I'm still with my phone. Most times maybe I'll probably spend the next 30 minutes after posting that job [music] looking at proposals, looking if I can get my best freelancer. You understand? But let's say after an hour or 5 hours or let's say 12 hours or a day, I might even get carried away or I might not look at it again. So the best one of the best strategies to use on

Upwork is applying for recently posted [music] jobs like this one. So that's number one on the list. Now the next strategy here, the third strategy is skip job from people who are already interviewing people. We need to skip jobs from clients who are already interviewing freelancers. Now for example, let me let me look. Let me see. Let's search uh let's click on this job. No pet editing illustration. So let's click on the job. Now when you click on the job, you scroll down here. Let's go to

job activity. Now here, okay, there's no interview. It's not interviewing anyone. I need to [music] I want to find a job that already have people that they interviewing so that I can show you what I mean by people already being interviewed. Let's check on this job. Oh, this job has no interview. Let's search uh graphic design. So the the the idea behind it is the idea behind it is the fact that when a client posts a job and you come to the job and you open the job activity and you see that the client is already

interviewing like let's say seven people or five people [music] there's a high chance that the client has already shortlisted his candidates. There's a very very high chance and a lot of people don't know this and for a once a client has shortlisted his candidates if you apply for that job. There's a 90% chance that you are just wasting your connect and the client is not going to hire you. There's a very very very high chance that you are just wasting your connect. So any clients I don't know I've not

been see I didn't see jobs I've been searching I didn't see jobs that already has posted last week I needed to show an example here for example now here now now this is what I mean by a client interviewing people now let's say you saw this job and the job has less than five proposals submitted now this is one of our strategies this is a green flag what it means here is that there are less than five people on this proposal and the lesser the people that applied on a job. The lesser

proposals, the higher your chance of getting viewed. You understand? [music] So, let's say you saw this job and you wanted to jump on it and you saw that this client is already interviewing two people and this client already sent 20 invites. It is not wise to apply for the job. Now, most of these strategies are actually for beginners and people that want don't want to waste their connect. Let's say you just have 50 connect. You don't want to go around wasting connect. There are people that can might still

risk someone like me. If I really need this job, I'm top rated plus already. I can still risk it. Let's say, okay, I can just throw in my proposal out there just for risk sake. Most times you won't get a reply. But if you really want to get a reply, you need to be extra careful. Yes, if you especially when you're just starting and you're managing your connects. So this kind of job when you see immediately you see interviewing what this means that this client has already this client already has three

freelancers in mind. So skip a job like this especially when you see a lot of invite but if you see invites and you see interviewing zero you can still try but immedately you see that the client has shortlisted some candidate you I advise you to just leave it. So uh another strategy is I've talked about uh payment verification method. Yes, any client now this is what it means payment verified. What it means is that this client has uploaded his card and actually can actually pay freelancers.

So any clients that most scammers on Upwork most scammers that are client and scam freelancers most of them don't have payment verified method meaning that they have not put any card on their page. So any client you see or any job post you see and the person does not have a a verified payment method skip the job. It's a red flag. So, uh, another one is skip jobs that have up to 20 to 50 proposals. This one is for people that are starting. Like I said, there are some people that will still argue it. There are people that

are top rate plus that still believe that they still have an edge even if they see up to 20 proposals. But I will tell you for sure that if you really want to get results on Upwork, you need to skip jobs that have up to 20 to 50 proposals. Now, look at what I mean here. Okay? Let me if you let me say okay this should show me now I told upwork to show me jobs with 2 to 50 proposal now this is the kind of job now this is a job this is a highpaying client this client has spent $4 million of course it's

worth risking but let's say now look at this job okay the activities on the job he has hired people let's say when he posted this job he has not hired but the job is showing 20 to 50 proposals I will advise people to stay clear yes some some people have been telling mean something like uh when you apply all my uh job searching strategies that when you apply all the search the se and everything you will not have any job it's it's better it's better to not see any job to apply for than to just be

shooting blank uh h your connect this is why a lot of people whis connect a lot of people don't know all these things they just come on Upwork they think Upwork is a game of numbers I don't blame them because when I started on Upwork I made a lot of mistake too in fact the first 200 proposals I submitted on Upwork I didn't get any job because I was doing it the absolute wrong way. I knew nothing about all this that I'm saying now. I knew nothing about uh job with less than five proposals, job with

20. In fact, I was not even checking job activities. So, I just come I just shoot blank. But if you know all these things, you need you will be intentional and you have more uh uh proposal views. Yes, when you apply for jobs with less proposals, you have more views than when you apply for these jobs. So stay clear from these jobs. Now another strategy to use here is let's say you see your a dream job. You see a job uh let's say just posted 5 minutes ago and let's say have less than five proposals on the job and the client

is good has a verified payment method and you want to jump on the job. You want to take your chance to apply. Now there's a trick that works so well. It's just simple psychology. For example, let's say I want to apply for this job. for this client. I'll use it as an example. Uh this job is now when you go down here, this is the job activities. It's already interviewing 24 people. Of course, you need to stay clear like I told you. Now, when you come down here to the job now, these are reviews from uh past jobs from

this client. Now, he worked with this freelancer. This freelancer's name is Romeo Rated in 4.0. [music] Now if you if you if you go through the history you can you can get the client name you know when they post jobs on Upwork Upwork is not like Contra that shows you name of clients sometimes Upwork does not show name of client so you need if you want to personalize your proposal and make your proposal feel personal instead of saying hello for example instead of saying hello I saw your job I can do

this for you I can do this for you personalize your profile you call the the client's name for example if If I put up a job online and people call my name, someone says, "Hello, I saw your job. This is" and everybody say, "Hello, hello, hello." And if there's one person that calls my name and the person is like, "Hey, Chukua or Emmanuel, I saw your job. I I feel more connected to that person. The person will draw my attention." So, it's just simple psychology. Yeah. If you need to

personalize your profile, you need to personalize your proposal. Sorry. So how to do this is to get the client's name. Now you won't see the client name on the proposal. So the only [music] way you can see the client's name is to open the job come down to history and see if read some conversations from some client from some uh freelancers and see if those freelancers mention the client's name. So let's search here to freelancer. Okay, we're looking for feedback from freelancers. Great team.

No, this one didn't mention their name. I would love to work with them again. Let's keep [music] going. I hope you see the name. Sometimes you are not lost. You are not always lucky. Sometimes you will see their name. Unless you don't see their name that you can now use hello or hi. But if you see their name, you should personalize with their name. Freelancer. I've not seen company. I've not seen any name yet. Okay, I think we have something here. This freelancer said it was a pleasure

working with Zenna and active prime team. Active prime team is the name of the team and Zenna is the name of the client. So we have a name here but we need to confirm. Let's check and see if another person called them called them this name so that we can confirm. Uh remaining two great client to work with. Okay. So we have a name here. We just saw the Zenna and Active Prime team. I think someone else called them active prime team. So let's just take that the client's name is Zenna. So now if you

want to send a message, let's say you want to apply for this job. Instead of just saying, "Hi, I want to do this do this for you. I can do this for you." You like you say, "Hi Zenna." Like if the client's name is really Zenna and you mention his or her name, the clients will be drawn to your proposal. It's psychology. The client cannot fight it. And this is a very [music] very good trick that has worked for me over the years. So, one of the tricks there is looking for the client's

name in the comments, getting the name and using the client's name or the [music] team name or the company name to personalize uh your proposal. Okay. So, another trick here to using uh this one is very very good. This one has saved me. This one have put a lot of freelancers in trouble. [music] Now what to check again is you need to apply for job that has only good rating. This is very very important. This has put a lot of freelancers into a lot of problems including me too when I started on

Upwork when I didn't know all these things. [music] Now these are the ratings. All clients clients rate freelancers when a job is done and freelancers rate clients too. So this is the rating on this job. This client's rating, this client rating is 5.9. Now, every client has a history, client history. Now, these are the rating. This is how you have an idea of whether a client might be troublesome or whether a client is can be might be a dream client or when whether a client is a good client. Now, when you see a lot of bad

ratings from a client, when a when you see that a client is keeps on rating freelancers, let's say 1.0 2.0 Zero freelancers keep on saying this client is not a good client. You should stay clear from that job and that client because yes every experience is not the same experience but you need to stay clear for your own sanity [music] for your own uh peace of mind. So here this client is rated 4.9 good. This client 5.0 good. This client 4.5 good. I always tell my student that any client that is rated anything less than

four, you should not apply for the job. You should stay clear from the client. Some people might have a different opinion. But that's one of my tactics and it has worked for me over the years. Uh any client you see with one star or rated two star is a troublesome client and we need to be very you need to be very careful. You need to [music] read comments. Yes, you need to read comment from clients. Like here now a lot of people just apply for jobs. You don't read all these things. You need to read

comments and see what some of the freelancers they work with said about them. What they said about freelancers. This is how you know clients that are good for you. So that's one that's one of the tricks uh for a good proposal. Now another trick that people neglect a lot. This has worked for me over the years. When you're writing a proposal, there's something we call a clear call to action. [clears throat] Some people just end their proposal. Some people just when they see let's say

a client wants a graphic designer and a client said he wants a graphic designer to help him with a brand identity design most people just go in hello this let's say the client's name is root hello root I need to help you with a graphics I I can help you do come up with a graphic design a brand identity design for your company and this this this I'm good with Photoshop I can do this I can deliver on time blah blah blah blah blah thank you no you need to have a clear call to action. A client might read that

your proposal [music] and just skip it. He might still DM you if he likes what you see, his or her he or her, but there's need to have a clear call a a clear call to action. Now a call to action means something like when you finish telling the client okay I can help you with a brand identity design then you now let me you now uh say something like I am free to hop on a call anytime to discuss more on the project or you ask a client a question. You ask a client something like when do you want me to start?

Do you want me to start now? I'm ready to hop on a Zoom call. Are you free now to hop on a call? Now, these are psychological questions. These are clear call to action. These are questions that will make clients reply you without even knowing when they replied you. So, always drop something that will hook the client. Always drop questions, intentional questions. You can ask a question on the project. Oh, do you just want brand identity design? Do you also want social media design? I can also do

this. I [music] can do this. You understand? But before you say you can also do something else, you need to make sure that you have identified the clients, what the client needs and how to solve the need first. So this is very very important. Always end your proposal with a clear call to action. Uh okay. So the next thing on the list here is share samples of your proposal. Uh share samples of your portfolio. For example, if I'm a graphic designer now, now like me, my my proposal is my portfolio is on Behance. So what I do

after every proposal when I write my proposal, first of all, let me run down what we said. First of all, I get the name of the client, I put on the proposal, when I get the name of the client, I put on the proposal. I read uh what the client says the problem is. Identify the problem. How to solve the problem. Put my clear call to action. After my clear call to action, then I can put a link to my behans. This is the link to my portfolio. No too much long talk. Just a link. Don't send a lot of images. Just a link

and that will do. Make sure you send a link. So uh and uh another point here is this is where freelancers a lot of freelancers get problem here. A lot of freelancers don't actually read the description of the job. Now here for example now when we checking jobs here [music] there's something that they call best matches here. Here uh when you apply for a job on Upwork, Upwork actually selects some freelancers. Let's say you apply for a job on Upwork and in that job there were 20 proposals in that job. Let's say you

submitted a proposal. We are one of the 20 proposals on the job. Inside the 20 proposals, Upwork selects freelancers that their skill set match best with the job. Now for example, now this job now look at the skill set for these jobs. Graphic design, fashion, beauty, sports recreation, brand identity guidelines and the rest. Now in this job opport will suggest to this client let's say a freelancer that has the best match for this. That's why it's very very important that I tell freelancers not to

apply do not apply for any job that is not in line with your skill set. For example, you cannot be a graphic designer and you go and search up a UIUX job and you are applying for it. Apply for jobs that match what you do. If you're a brand identity design and you niche down to brand identity design, apply for brand identity design jobs more when you do that you have a very high chance of Upwork matching you. Yes, most times freelancers does not do not hire people that Upwork recommend for them uh

[music] based on the best match but it still plays a very very big role. Yes, it's just like the system is telling uh a freelancer this is the best freelancer. It matches what you need and they are big on professional. So you should apply for only jobs that you have correct skill set and jobs that you can do. Don't apply for any job that you cannot do, it will even backfire. Even if they hire, even if you apply for a job that you cannot do and you get hired, it will still backfire. Yes.

because you might mess up on a job and [music] a client might give you a very bad review or a bad feedback and it will destroy your job success score or impact your page negatively. So apply for only job that you have the skill match. If you're a graphic designer, if you're a logo designer, niche down to logo designer, you do only logos, apply for more of logo jobs. If you're a graphic designer, apply for graphic design jobs. So another uh thing you need to check is time zones. Now if you notice here on

the job feed if some of you notice anytime you come to Upwork to apply for jobs let's say Nigerian time let's say if you come in the morning 9:00 Nigeria to apply for jobs you notice that there are not many jobs because most of the companies that post most of the people that post jobs on Upwork here are either from the US most of them are from the US like for example now let's check from this job here this first job here United States this one here United States this one United Kingdom Canada United States,

United States, United States, you see that most of them are United States. So, you need to study United States uh time zone. [music] Now, when I say filter, when I tell freelancers to filter [music] jobs to apply for only jobs that are posted recently, most of them complain that most jobs are not posted recently. that after okay after these two jobs that I posted 40 minutes 44 minutes ago or 42 minutes ago there are no more jobs here that I posted recently this one has reached 2 hours 2 hours now to tell you

the truth I can apply for these jobs uh 2 hours but one of my strategy that worked for me [music] one of the strategy that makes me get a lot of invite get a lot of clients uh DM or proposal views are applying for jobs that I just posted because I told you in the beginning of the video that I do is because the clients maybe might still be on their phone and ready to make decision on the offices. So if you want to catch a lot of jobs that are just recently posted, you need to study US hours. You need to study US office

hours. You need to know when it's 9:00 a.m. in US where people are just entering the offices. Those are where most of the jobs are posted. So you need to know those times. I think the US 9:00 9:00 a.m. in US should be like 2:00 p.m. here in the afternoon. So you should check. I'm not sure to check because it's belong and apply for job. I knew all this time then when I was huzzling for jobs on Upwork. So if you know this time you need to be ready with your connects these times to be here to use

all the strategies I showed and apply for jobs and you will see most of jobs posted 5 minutes 2 minutes 1 minute 3 minutes you start you see a lot of jobs. But when you don't know those times, let's say you don't apply by 2 2 p.m. here [music] and let's say you come in the night, maybe it's already evening there, you will not see all those jobs. So understanding time zones is very very important to know the perfect time to uh where decision top decision makers are in their offices when they they have

their phone and when they're ready to make decisions. So understanding US time, Canadian time and uh United Kingdom time is very very important. So now the very very the most important in all the proposal tactics here is a lot of people ask me and tell me I should give them my templates. I'm of the opinion that yeah there are strategies to write proposals but I don't think there's a generic template for proposals. No, I don't believe I don't believe that there's a generic uh

template for proposals because trust me, clients know that we in the era of uh we're in the era of uh AI and trust me they they they know when something is generic when something you just generated something and posted. No, it doesn't work. And I always tell people keep your proposals as human as possible. Let it not be too long. Let it not be too generic. Let it not have emojis. Let it not have hyphens. Let it not have uh hashtags and the rest all those generic stuff. Let it be human. First of all, let it have the name of

the clients. Second of all, let it address the problem in the first two lines. The problem of the client and how to solve the problem for those clients. And don't start your proposal with hello, my name is No, the client does not care about your name or your introduction or what you do. Just tell the clients uh address the problem. How you solved the problem and how you have maybe how you have solved the problem from other clients. Yes, they want to know it. They want to know results. But first of all, before you tell them your

result, you address their problem and how to solve their problem before you now say the result of how you've helped one client achieve uh the same thing that they want you to achieve for them. So keep it straight. There is no templates but there are strategies. Follow the strategy. Write your proposal. Address the problem. Call the client's name. How to solve the problem. How to deliver. Put your portfolio. If you have a portfolio link, you put uh then put a very well-crafted call to action to show the client that you are

ready to work and you're ready to hop on a call with the client. Now, there's another thing I almost omitted. Uh if you look at my profile here, you see this. I have an intro video. I've told most people uh that have been teaching Upwork, you should have an intro video. You should record an interview. Now, this is my intro video. There's a link to it. Now, this intro video is just like a general info of what I can do, what I can do for clients, what I can uh how I work, uh the experiences I have

and everything. So, clients connect more from when they see you speak. Now another thing why this is important is some people put it in their uh portfolio and it's very very important. It's another strategy. Now after putting the link to your portfolio, you can copy the link to your intro video and just keep. Now most clients use this intro video to test your English speaking skills. They want to see how you talk, how you speak, some reviews, completed jobs you have done because most clients are actually

lazy to scroll through your profile to see your review. So if you can put everything in one video and put them in your proposal, put the link just link to the YouTube. This is connected to YouTube. The client can click and see it. So you can come to my page. You can check how I did my own. There are many types. There are people that did their own. People just recorded themselves speaking. Me I I did a voice over. I paid a video editor and they did this for me. I compiled all my results uh feedback from clients and the rest. So

this is very very important here. Make your proposals human. There is no tactics. There's no uh there's no there's no tactics. There's no what is it called? There's no templates as people say. A lot of people keep asking me to give them my template for proposal. But I keep on telling them that I don't have any template to give them. In fact, I won't advise them to use template. So, I'll just advise them to use the strategies like I've mentioned in this video. uh make their

their proposal human. Let me tell you one thing I've learned over the years. Clients want to speak with human beings. They want to hire human beings. They don't want to hire people that look speak like robots, people that submit things that look like templates. So, make your proposals as simple as possible. Trust me, high paying clients, they are too lazy to read. They most of them don't have time to read uh long long long things. I see some people's proposal. I just laugh. Most clients

don't have that time. [music] They just want to see that you understand them. They just want to see that you read their proposals uh uh correctly. Uh they just want to see that you read their job uh description, sorry, correctly and you know their problem and you know how to solve their problem and you're ready to work. That's all they want to see. That's all. Trust me, they don't want to read all those long long things. So this is what you need to do to stand out and get jobs on Upwork. Trust me, if you use

these strategies, you are going to have a lot of profile views. I guarantee you, you're going to have a lot. It's not upwork is not easy, but with the right strategies with this, you're not going to waste on it and you're going to have a lot lots and lots of views. So, uh, if I did a thread on Twitter, if you still need a detailed, a well detailed, uh, let's say something of this, I did a thread that had some, uh, what's it called? That had some illustrations that made people

understand most of these things. Well, so you can go to my Twitter page, Final Touch, and you see some of the trends I did on proposals and the rest. Now, make sure you address the problem of the client in your first two lines because from my research, uh there's a way the client sees proposals from their end when they are going through proposals. They don't see the whole proposals. They see like the first three lines or the first two lines of the proposal. So, that is the most important line. These

are the lines that will make the client to actually click your proposal then read your full proposal. So if you waste those three lines, if you waste those first three lines talking about your name or introducing yourself, the client might skip your proposal. So make sure that you go straight to the point. You address the problem in the first two lines and how to solve the problem in the first two lines. Do this [music] and you're going to see a very very very very clear change and you're going to


